d.p.f. = days post fertilization....ours are 10-11 d.p.f

photo taken (From Eaton et al., 1995.)

---------------Zebrafish:An_in_vivo_model_for_the_study__of_neurological_diseases------------------



Cognitive impairment manifests itself in a number of neurological diseases such as
schizophrenia, Huntington’s, Parkinson’s, and Alzheimer’s diseases

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neurochemical_and_behavioural_changes_in_zebrafish_Danio_rerio_after_systemic_administration_of_6-hydroxydopamine_and_1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine


synaptic activation in
the locomotor network of the zebrafish, 



zebrafish were raised and maintained as described in previous publications(fredriks paper)


zebrafish Danio rerio

Dopaminergic deficiency

locomotor  behaviour

dopaminergic system

syndrome mimicking Parkinson’s disease in primates


signs of an excessive stress reaction to the handling and monitoring
of the behaviour (such as rapid and disorganized swimming or
immobility for 5 min or more)



We employed a video tracking system to detect changes in
the swimming behaviour of lesioned zebrafish. Video
tracking has previously been used to record, track and
analyse the behaviour of vertebrates and invertebrates
(Noldus et al . 2001). Similar methods to ours have been previously successfully used to measure spontaneous locomotor activity in the crucian carp and goldfish
 (Nilsson et al. 1993;Kato et al .1996) and behavioural dysfunctions in trout after exposure to cholinesterase inhibitors or heavy metals
(Brewer et al . 2001; Beauvais et al. 2001)


The control fish tended to swim in a
circular pattern along the walls of the observation tank,
infrequently changing direction. We interpreted that this
indicates a normal pattern of swimming, with a tendency to
follow the wall. Similar behavioural patterns have been
reported in goldfish and salmon (Clements et al. 2002).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zebrafish: an emerging technology for in vivo pharmacological assessment to identify potential safety liabilities in early drug discovery


Human disease models for
efficacy screening have also been developed in zebrafish
across a wide range of therapeutic areas (cardiovascular
disease, infection, cancer, inflammation and metabolic
diseases)

Screening technologies exist and are
being further developed in zebrafish, which should provide
very early readouts of potential off-target effects on the
cardiac and CNS as well as other functions (such as effects on
the intestinal tract, proconvulsant potential, auditory and
visual functions and bone formation) prior to lead or
candidate selection.

the larval zebrafish appear to
combine  advantages  of  whole  organism  phenotypic  assays  and  those  (rapid  production  of  results  with  minimal  resource
engagement)  of in  vitro high-throughput  screening  techniques. 

 in drug discovery for identification of target and off-target effects

establishment of zebrafish as a relevant
model   for   human   disease   and   pharmaceutical   research
(Driever et al ., 1996; Alestrom et al ., 2006)

zebrafish assays for pharmacology
investigations

The  organization  of  the
genome and the genetic pathways controlling signal trans-
duction  and  development  appear  to  be  highly  conserved
between  zebrafish  and  humans  (Postlethwait et  al .,  2000)


 The  International  Conference  on
Harmonisation (ICH) S7A guideline requires that any clinical
candidate is evaluated before first exposure to man on basic
vital   (cardiac,   central   nervous   and   respiratory   system)
functions. These safety pharmacology investigations as well
as toxicology studies often reveal effects that require further
experimentation for clarification purposes that are expensive
and time consuming and may result in the abandonment of
the clinical candidate
.
Screening technologies exist and are
being further developed in zebrafish, which should provide
very  early  readouts  of  potential  off-target  effects  on  the
cardiac and CNS as well as other functions (such as effects on
the  intestinal  tract,  proconvulsant  potential,  auditory  and
visual  functions  and  bone  formation)  prior  to  lead  or
candidate selection.

According  to  the  ICH  S7A  guidelines,  clinical  candidates
need to be investigated as a prerequisite to human testing for
their effects on general behaviour, motor activity, behavioural
changes, coordination,  sensory/motor  reflex responses  and
body  temperature.  Additional  CNS  follow-up  studies  are
expected to be carried out prior to product approval to cover
behavioural  pharmacology,  learning  and  memory,  ligand-
specific  binding,  neurochemistry,  visual,  auditory  and/or
electrophysiology examinations (FDA, 2001).



zebrafish larvae have
recently  become  the  focus  of  neurobehavioural  studies  as
they display learning, sleep, drug addiction and neurobeha-
vioural phenotypes that are quantifiable and related to those
seen in man (Zhdanova et al ., 2001; Cahill, 2002; Guo, 2004; Orger et  al .,  2004;  Ninkovic et  al .,  2006).  

clozapine,  Sedative(human) , Sedative(zebrafish) Boehmler et al. (2007)


These data suggest that
the zebrafish can be used to develop relevant models for the
study of neurological activity of drugs and to assess whether
or not compounds are excluded from the CNS

With the emergence of the zebrafish as a model
organism  in  pharmacological  studies,  these  technologies
have  been  adapted  to  track  zebrafish  locomotor  activity.
Zebrafish larvae are capable of free swimming from 4 d.p.f.
and  can  be  tested  for  locomotor  activity  by  immersion
in  the  medium  containing  test  compound  (Drapeau et  al ., 2002


The effect of a range of sedative compounds on zebrafish
larvae  locomotor  activity  has  been  documented  (Table  1).
Clozapine   (12.5–50 microM) cause   hypomotility   in   zebrafish   larvae
(Zhdanova et al ., 2001; Airhart et al ., 2007; Boehmler et al ., 2007).



 Gen-
erally,  convulsant  or  proconvulsant  clinical  candidates  are
discarded  from  pharmaceutical  development  pathway  as
they are potentially life threatening. Although convulsants
can  cause  seizure-linked  symptoms  in  their  own  right,  a
proconvulsant reduces the threshold to reach a seizure-like
pre-existing condition or enhances seizure-inducing triggers.
Thus,   safety   pharmacology   approaches   this   liability   by
evaluating the capacity of test substances to cause convul-
sions or to lower the seizure threshold in animals subjected
to  an  electroconvulsive  shock  (Rundfeldt et  al .,  1995);  or
treated with reference proconvulsant agents such as pentylenetetrazol   (PTZ)   or   picrotoxin   (Porsolt et   al .,   2002). 



Zebrafish larvae at 7 d.p.f. respond to PTZ with a distinct
series  of  movements  (Baraban
et  al .,  2005)  evolving  from
increased swimming activity to rapid ‘whirlpool-like’ beha-
viour  to  generalized  tonic  clonic  seizures.  The  latencies  to
the  beginning  of  this  three-stage  phenomenon  depend  on
the  concentration  of  the  convulsant  agent.  The  zebrafish
seizure model has been further validated by demonstrating
the presence of ictal spike and sharp wave activity postictal
depression  and  interictal  slow  wave  activity,  using  tectal
whole-field  recordings  (Baraban et  al .,  2005).  In  addition,
these are accompanied by a rapid upregulation of c-fos gene
in the CNS, which is known to underlie neuronal activation.
Using  a  video-tracking  system,  evidence  of  reduction  and
suppression  of  PTZ-induced  seizure  was  obtained  with  13
known  antiepileptic  drugs  (Berghmans et  al .,  2007).  An
additional  blinded  study  using  17  compounds  known  to
produce seizure liability and 8 negatives in a video-tracking
system achieved a predictability of 72% (Winter et al ., 2008).
This  screening  approach  will  also  allow  investigation  of
potential proconvulsants. Compounds such as theophylline, pilocarpine or caffeine 
are able to potentiate  subthreshold  concentrations  of  PTZ (S  Berghmans,  unpublished  data).  The
timing   of   seizure   induction   has   been   investigated   by
exposing zebrafish larvae to domoic acid, which was found
to reduce latency time to first PTZ-induced seizure (Tiedeken
and Ramsdell, 2007). Therefore, with further validation it is
very  much  possible  that  zebrafish  could  be  used  in  the
detection of convulsant and proconvulsant liabilities of early
stage compounds.


Non-associative  learning  has  been
studied  in  larval  zebrafish  at  7  d.p.f.  by  measuring  the
reduction in a startle response to a series of acoustic stimuli
(Best et al ., 2008)

The potential role of zebrafish in the early identification of
possible off-target effects



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Development of Motor Networks in Zebrafish Embryos



After 4 days, larvae have been shown to ex-
hibit four main types of motor behaviors. Two
of these motor gaits were classified as turning
behaviors, namely, routine turns and escape
turns. Routine turns are slower and weaker
than escape turns and occur mostly sponta-
neously whereas escape turns are usually trig-
gered by tactile stimulation and are an integral
part of the startle response.
84
The startle re-
sponse is a predator escape motor behavior that
has been very well studied in fishes, including
the larval zebrafish.
85,86
The startle response in
larval zebrafish usually consists of a pro-
nounced contralateral bend of the tail, the C-
start, which is usually followed by a weaker
counter bend and an episode of swim-
ming.
81,84,87
The other two motor gaits seen at
4 days were classified as swimming behaviors
and have been designated slow swims and
burst swims. Slow swims typically follow rou-
tine turns whereas burst swims are associated
to tactile evoked escape responses. Slow swim
episodes involve weaker bends of the tail,
lower frequencies of tail beats and slower
swimming speeds than burst swimming.
84

 McElligott MB, O’Malley DM. Prey tracking by lar-
val zebrafish: axial kinematics and visual control.
Brain Behav Evol 2005;66:177–196.
90.  Borla MA, Palecek B, Budick S, O’Malley DM. Prey
capture by larval zebrafish: evidence for fine axial
motor control. Brain Behav Evol 2002;60:207–229.

 O’Malley DM, Kao YH, Fetcho J. R. Imaging the
functional organization of zebrafish hindbrain seg-
ments during escape behaviors. Neuron 1996;17:
1145–1155.

The space cadet
mutant is part of the twitch
twice category of motor defects because they
respond to tactile stimulation at 4 dpf with
multiple C-bends toward the same side instead
of the normal touch response of a C-bend fol-
lowed by a counter bend and swimming.( Granato M, van Eeden FJ, Schach U, Trowe T, Brand M, Furutani-Seiki M, 
et al. Genes controlling and mediating locomotion behavior of the zebrafish embryo
and larva. Development 1996;123:399–413)
The large magnitude of the successive C-bends in
the mutants suggested that the problem arose
in the selection of the proper motor response
and not the execution of the escape response it-
self, which pointed to a problem in the network
of the Mauthner cell.


In zebrafish
space cadet
mutant larvae, spiral fiber neurons fail to synapse onto the Mauthner cell (Lorent et  al.,  2001).  As  a  consequence  of  this  mis-wiring,
space cadet larvae  fail  to  activate  the  escape  response  properly.
Following tactile or vibrational stimuli, these larvae demon-
strate multiple contractions either towards or away from the
stimuli. 

Early vertebrate embryos, ranging from teleosts to mammals,  show  a  similar  spontaneous  motor  behavior  consisting  initially  of  slow  lateral  
bends  of  the  trunk  (Gottlieb, 1973; Hamburger, 1963; Hooker, 1952).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LOCOMOTOR REPERTOIRE OF THE LARVAL ZEBRAFISH: SWIMMING, TURNING
AND PREY CAPTURE

Larval zebrafish (Brachydanio rerio) are a popular
model system because of their genetic attributes,
transparency and relative simplicit

The Mauthner cell is a command neuron that, in teleost fish,
triggers an escape response each time it fires an action potential
(Zottoli, 1977; Kimmel et al., 1980; Eaton et al., 1981; Faber
et al., 1989).


Less is known about turning behavior in fishes. While escape-related turning behaviors have been studied extensively
(see, for example, Kimmel et al., 1974; Foreman and Eaton,
1993), and kinematic data are available on the S-starts used in
predation (Domenici and Blake, 1997; Spierts and Van
Leeuwen, 1999), other more ‘routine’ turning behaviors used in
navigation, foraging or related behaviors have been less studied
(McClellan and Hagevik, 1997). Fuiman and Webb (1988)
reported that in zebrafish larvae the proportion of swimming
bouts that begin with large-angle turns increases with the length
of the larva, but the frame rate of the video recordings used at
that time limited the kinematic analyses that could be
performed. Regarding prey capture by larval zebrafish, there
are, to our knowledge, no published high-speed kinematic
studies, although prey capture by other larval fish has been
shown to involve both ram- and suction-feeding strategies
(Drost and Van den Boogaart, 1986; Coughlin, 1994)

A second class of turning behaviors consists of high-velocity
turns associated with escape responses. In larval zebrafish, the
escape responses are of the 
C
-start variety, meaning that they
are initiated by a very fast 
C
-shaped bend (Fig. 4). These
escape responses have been studied in detail (see, for example,
Kimmel et al., 1980; Foreman and Eaton, 1993; Liu and
Fetcho, 1999) and are shown here for comparison with routine
turns. The escape response shown in Fig. 4 was elicited by a
brief pulse of water puffed out of a pipette positioned near the
head of the fish (highlighted in frame 1). In addition to the
initial rapid bend (which is near maximal in frame 7), the
escape response typically includes a large counterbend in the
opposite direction, which reaches a maximum at frame 13
(asterisk). Fig. 5A shows a plot of the initial turn angles for six
escape turns elicited from the fish used in Fig. 3A. The escape
responses plotted here were elicited by pressure pulses directed
at either the head (solid arrows) or tail (broken arrows). Fig. 5B
shows all escape turns recorded from the same four fish
depicted in Fig. 3B. In some instances, the turn angle exceeded
180 °  (open arrowheads). The escape response is typically followed by a vigorous swimming episode, often referred to as
a burst swim, as occurs in Fig. 4 following the counterbend.
Such burst swims were not observed following routine turns
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mauthner cell is a neuron of the brainstem escape network of fish (The Mauthner cell and other identified neurons of the brainstem escape network of fish)

The Mauthner cell and other identified neurons of the brainstem escape network of fish

Correlation of Mauthner activity with the C-start

To understand the behavioral role of the Mauthner cell, it was necessary to establish two facts. First, was it really the C-start that occurred when the Mauthner cell fired? Second, the Mauthner cell action potential lasts only 1 ms, but the behavior is at least 100 times longer. Where does the action potential occur in the temporal sequence of the behavioral event? If the Mauthner cell was a command neuron, it would be important to show that the Mauthner cell fired at the beginning of the response. In particular, it would be important to show that the timing of its activation was consistent with the pathway and intervals that would lead from Mauthner cell to motoneuron to muscle fiber to C-start movement.

The existing evidence was circumstantial. From the recording experiments, we did not know what motor pattern occurred when the Mauthner cell fired. This is because the response is so fast that it is difficult to visually characterize it, or even to know which way the fish turned initially. Correspondingly, from the cinematographic studies, we did not know that the Mauthner cell fired when the C-start occurred. What was needed was a study using the chronic Mauthner recording of Zottoli (1977) coupled with our high-speed cinematographic analysis (Eaton et al., 1977).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Swimming of larval zebrafish: fin–axis coordination and implications for
function and neural control

Adult  actinopterygian fishes typically perform steady
forward swimming using either their pectoral fins or their
body axis as the primary propulsor. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Behavioral Screening Assays in Zebrafish


All animals show innate behaviors, which depend on the correct development
and function of their nervous systems. 

behavior is the endpoint of neural processing often
involving tens or hundreds of cell types in a neural circuit or pathway,



Startle is a relatively simple reflex behavior that develops early, is homologous
across species, and activates a motor response intended to facilitate escape from a
threatening stimulus (Landis and Hunt, 1939).

Defects in the regulation
of startle have been observed in human diseases such as schizophrenia and Tourette’s syndrome (Geyer et al., 2001)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IN VIVO DRUG DISCOVERY IN THE ZEBRAFISH

The zebrafish has become a widely used model organism because of its fecundity,
its morphological and physiological similarity to mammals, the existence of many genomic
tools and the ease with which large, phenotype-based screens can be performed



By combining the scale and throughput of  in vitro screens with the
physiological complexity of animal studies, the zebrafish promises to contribute to several
aspects of the drug development process, including target identification, disease modelling,
lead discovery and toxicology.


MAUTHNER CELLS
A bilateral pair of brain stem
neurons that receive sensory
inputs and trigger the characteristic escape response
of fish to aversive stimuli.


Identifying and validating novel drug targets remains a
bottleneck in drug discovery.Despite a wealth of
information about normal physiology and disease
pathology, it is still difficult to predict which targets will
effectively reverse a disease phenotype without producing
unwanted side effects. Consequently, drug discovery efforts directed at poorly validated targets frequently fall
short of expectations



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Behavioral Analysis of Dopaminergic Activation in Zebrafish and
Rats Reveals Similar Phenotypes


The structure and molecular pathways of the CNS are highly
conserved between mammals and zebrafish, and a functional
nervous system is established after only 4−5 days of embryonic
development enabling zebrafish larvae to perform complex
behaviors such as swimming and feeding. 10−12

Thus, it is not surprising that compounds that target
the dopamine system show similar effects in zebrafish as in
mammals; in general, dopamine agonists increase locomotor
activity and antagonists decrease it. 17−20

Based on our research interest in disorders in CNS and dysfunction of
the dopaminergic system in particular, we decided to
characterize the drug apomorphine, which targets dopamine
receptors,


using projections to latent structures-
discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) revealed clear dose-dependent
trends when treating zebrafish larvae with high (50, 25, 10 μM)
or low doses (0.5, 0.2, 0.1 μM) of apomorphine


Irons et al., reported an
increased distanced moved at 50 μM, and our study verified
that this group separates out from both the controls and the
other treatment groups


orthogonal partial least-squares-discriminant anal-
ysis (OPLS-DA) model was created to identify variables
separating 0.5 μM and 50 μM doses


OPLS-DA facilitates the identification of class-
discriminating variables, particularly in a two-class discrim-
ination problem.


An overall increase
in locomotor activity was observed in larvae treated with a high
dose of apomorphine



There was a significant effect (RMANOVA) of treatment in distance
traveled (F 3.81 = 4.683, p < 0.05); larvae treated with 50 μM
swam significantly longer distances compared to those treated
with 10 μM. There was a significant effect of time (F 9.729 =
7.7024, p < 0.05); the highest dose (50 μM) demonstrated a
biphasic response in distance traveled: first, there was a
significant reduction compared to the control group during the
initial time interval (0−5 min), and then there was a transition
to a significant increase wherein the maximum effect was
reached after 25−35 min (Figure 6A). The group treated with
25 μM showed a similar biphasic response, although the effect




was shifted in time but the intermediate dose group of 10 μM
showed instead a decrease in distance traveled during the entire
experiment. A similar biphasic response pattern was also seen in
the number of bouts and a significant decrease in the number of
bouts was observed for all treatment groups compared to the
control at 0−10 min, followed by a significant increase for 50
μM compared to 10 μM (Figure 6B).
Bout-specific parameters were also altered after treatment
with high doses of apomorphine (Figure 6C−E). The high dose
phenotype demonstrated an increased bout duration and there
was a significant effect of apomorphine (RMANOVA: F 3.68 =
26.478, p < 0.0001), wherein the larvae treated with 50 μM had
a significantly increased duration per bout compared to other
groups (6C). From 15 min and later, the group treated with 50
μM showed significantly higher bout duration than the control,
and at 40−45 min, the group treated with 25 μM also exhibited
significantly increased bout duration compared to control.
Longer bout durations resulted in an increased distance per
bout, and there was significant effect of apomorphine treatment
(RMANOVA: F 3.66 = 14.228, p < 0.0001, Figure 6D), wherein
larvae treated with 50 μM exhibited a significantly increased
distance traveled per bout compared to other groups (Figure
6D). Based on the increase in duration per bout, the larvae
treated with 25 μM also traveled a significantly greater distance
per bout compared to the control. The onset was also dose
dependent, in that the distance traveled for the 50 μM group
was significantly greater than the control group from 15−20
min and the 25 μM group at 40−45 min. In addition,
apomorphine had a significant effect (RMANOVA: F 3.66 =
7.1351, p < 0.001) on the maximum speed per bout (Figure
6E). However, at 50 μM there was no effect but larvae treated
with 10 μM had a significantly increased maximum speed per
bout compared to the control.

We also identified bout-specific changes in the low-dose
group. Similar to the high-dose phenotype bout distance was
increased (Figure 7D). Analysis demonstrated that treatment
with apomorphine had a significant effect on bout distance
(RMANOVA: F 3.122 = 14.751, p < 0.0001), wherein all
treatment groups showed an increased bout distance compared
to the control. There was also a significant interaction effect of
apomorphine over time (RMANOVA: F 27.1098 = 3.0843, p <
0.0001), in which the peak effect for 0.5 and 0.2 μM treatment
groups was between 15−30 min. The onset of apomorphine
treatment with 0.5 μM occurred slightly earlier compared to the
50 μM dose, beginning at 5−10 min, but was not significantly
different from the control until 15−20 min. In addition, the
increase in bout distance compared to control was not as


pronounced for 0.5 μM as it was for 50 μM (160% vs 215%).
However, the cause of the increased bout distance was
different; while the high-dose phenotype performed more
bouts with longer durations the low-dose phenotype instead
performed fewer bouts but at increased maximum speed per
bout (Figure 7C). Statistical analysis demonstrated a significant
effect of apomorphine for bout max speed (RMANOVA: F 3.122
= 21.606, p < 0.0001), wherein all treatment groups had a
higher maximum speed per bout compared to the control. In
addition, the maximum speed was significantly higher for the
0.5 μM group than for the 0.1 μM group (HSD; p < 0.001). A
significant interaction effect of apomorphine over time was
found (RMANOVA: F 27.1098 = 4.487, p < 0.0001). The onset of
increasing maximum speed was at 5−10 min but was not
significant compared to control until 10−15 min and later for
the 0.5 μM treatment. Larvae treated with 0.2 and 0.1 μM also
demonstrated a significantly higher maximum speed compared
to control.


The low-dose phenotype also performed an increased
number of large-angle turns (Turn2, Figure 7F). There was a
significant effect of apomorphine in Turn2 (RMANOVA, F 3.122
= 55.609, p < 0.0001), in which all treatment groups performed
significantly more turns greater than 60° compared to the
control. Compared to the control groups, the larvae treated
with 0.5 and 0.2 μM performed significantly more turns above
60° at several time intervals. At an increased time resolution, we
could see that after only 2 min, there was a significant difference
between the 0.5 μM and control groups (Figure 7s, Supporting
Information). There was also a significant interaction effect of
apomorphine over time (RMANOVA: F 27.1098 = 3.630, p <
0.0001), and the peak effect for 0.5 μM was after 5−25 min.
We then expanded the analysis and classified specific types of
turns (definitions in the Supporting Information). 17,35−37 The
low-dose phenotype demonstrated a change in relative
frequency of types of turns compared to the control group
from primarily scoots to more turns performed with higher
velocity and a larger angle change (i.e., J-bends, C-bends, and
O-bends) as presented in Figure 8. In addition, the number of
turns classified as a startle response increased from 2 to 8%.


urther analysis of zebrafish
larvae revealed that although fewer bouts were carried out,
those executed were performed with increased velocity and
larger angle changes, indicative of an increased intensity (tail-
beat frequency and amplitude) and a larger initial body
bending. Zebrafish display a limited repertoire of turns, which
are situation and stress level dependent. For example, under
normal conditions, most movements are scoots, that is, short
distance movement forward with low speed and angle change.
However, other turns come into use when the larvae hunt for
prey (J-bends) or escape from a predator (C- and O-
bends). 17,37,57 These turns are characterized by increased
speed and larger angle change from the initial facing direction.
Assuming the autoreceptor hypothesis, low-dose apomorphine
preferentially stimulates presynaptic receptors, which leads to a
reduction of dopamine synthesis and release. This is function-
ally equivalent to the effect of a dopamine antagonist, and
apomorphine at a low dose has also been reported to exert
transient antipsychotic effects in schizophrenic patients. 58,59
However, dopamine antagonists frequently cause reversible
drug-induced movement disorders or motor side effects such as
dystonia, drug-induced parkinsonism, and akathisia in hu-
mans. 60 Although the larvae were habituated and all experi-
ments were performed in a dark, nonstressful environment,
drug treated larvae still displayed an increased relative
frequency of high-velocity large-angle change turns compared
to the control. This abnormal behavior supports the hypothesis
that intermediate/low-dose apomorphine induces a state in
zebrafish larvae characterized by fewer bout initiations and
reduced motor control, resembling a parkinsonistic state in
mammals. Altogether, all components of the larval methods of
controlling initiation of movement and swim speed using a
dynamic combination of bout frequency, bout duration, and
tail-beat frequency and amplitude are dose dependently affected
by apomorphine.


principal
component analysis (PCA), projections to latent structures-discrim-
inant analysis (PLS-DA), and orthogonal partial least-squares-
discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA).


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Behavioral profiling of zebrafish embryos exposed to a panel of 60 water-soluble compounds


These effects were either (i) suppression of locomotor activity (monotonic concentration-response); (ii) stimulation then suppression (biphasic response); (iii) stimulation (monotonic response). We conclude that behavioral assays with zebrafish embryos could be useful for pharmaceutical efficacy and toxicity screening.

 The major organ systems are developed at 5 days post fertilization (dpf) [13,14] and many basic cellular and molecular pathways implicated in the response to chemicals as well as stress are conserved between the zebrafish and mammals [15].


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Modeling fear and anxiety represents a major goal of behavioral research


The use of the zebrafish model in stress research


Fig. 9. Drug discovery pipeline involving novel zebrafish models. This schematic illustrates a potential drug discovery pipeline showing the incorporation of novel approaches using cell-based and zebrafish assays into target discovery and zebrafish behavior-based assays into compound screen. Reproduced with permission from Brittijn et al. (2009). The zebrafish model will never replace mammalian models in the drug development pipeline, particularly at later stages when the regulatory authorities demand studies in mammalians and clinical trials. Rather, the zebrafish model can serve as an invaluable screening tool in the pre-clinical phase, before rodent models, in the drug pipeline.



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Quantification of locomotor activity in larval zebrafish:
considerations for the design of high-throughput
behavioral studies



 We provide evidence for differences in locomotor activity between larvae
at different stages and when recorded in wells of different depths, but not in wells of
different diameters. 


First, large sample-sizes are
necessary due to the recognized high degree of intra-larval vari-
ability in the locomotor activity (Colwill and Creton, 2011; Farrell et al., 2011; Lambert et al., 2012).


second, assessing activity by
measuring and reporting a single property of locomotor activ-
ity (i.e., swim speed or total distance) may lead to an incomplete
understanding of activity level. For example, different groups of
larvae can produce similar total distances traveled per time by
generating different swim durations and/or swim speeds. This
strongly suggests that multiple properties of locomotor activity
must be examined and integrated to fully depict activity levels

The properties of locomotor activity that we measured were:
(1) Episode Frequency [number of episodes per sec (Hz)], (2)
Episode Duration [duration of time between events onset and
offset (ms)], (3) Swim Speed [mean instantaneous velocity per
episode(mm/s)],(4)ActiveSwimTime[sumofthenum-
ber of frames between events onset and offset divided by the
frame rate (s)], and (5) Total Distance [summed instantaneous
speeds during swimming episodes divided by frame rate (cm)]
and measured for each larva. All measures were then averaged 
across larvae within each condition and reported as population
means ± SD.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

behavioral profiling can characterize large classes of compounds and reveal differences in effectiveness, potential side effects, and combinatorial properties that might not be detected in vitro. Second, behavioral profiling allows for the systematic dissection of the pharmacology of complex behaviors. Our screen profiled the effects of dozens of neurotransmitter pathways and identified small molecules that regulate discrete aspects of rest/wake states. Future experiments can test drug combinations to identify synergistic or antagonistic effects among psychotropic compounds and build interaction maps. High throughput behavioral profiling thus opens the possibility to apply the logic and approaches of systems biology to neuropharmacology and behavior.


The central nervous system fundamentally deals with the control of actions. Consequently behavioral studies have often been a natural starting point for investigations aimed at understanding its functions. For the same reason, the search for new therapies for neurological and psychiatric diseases largely depend on animal models designed to mimic certain aspects of the disease that cause observable changes in the behavior of the subject. With the more recent development of techniques allowing for simultaneous recording of neuronal activity in many parts of the central nervous system in freely behaving animals, the electrophysiological processes underlying such changes in behavior – or even the generation of specific components of observed actions – have the potential to be investigated in much greater detail


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Different  Behavioural  Patterns  Induced  by  the  Dopamine  Agonist  Apomorphine  Analysed  by  Multivariate  Statistics



Low  doses  of  APO  are  known  to  inhibit  spontaneous  ac-  tivity  of  rats  [15,  18.  21.  24,  25]  and  this  effect  has  been  explained  as  a  selective  action  on  the  dopamlne  autoreceptor  [5,  8.  18,  30]  In  higher  doses  the  inhibition  changes  into  an  activation  of  the  ammal  Strombom  [30]  found  that  mice  re-  turned  to  normal  levels  of  activity  while  Puesch  et  al  [25]  reported  a  blphaslc  inhibition  curve  It  is  well  known  that  higher  doses  of  APO  reduce  stereotyped  behavlour  [10]  and  the  discrepancy  between  the  two  reports  is  most  probably  due  to  the  properties  of  the  particular  recording  apparatus  [17],  ~ts  abdlty  to  quantitate  different  motor  patterns  and  differences  in  the  experimental  design



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Classification of neuroleptic drugs according to their ability to inhibit apomorphine-induced locomotion and gnawing: Evidence for two different mechanisms of action

Apomorphine 5 mg/kg given s.c. induces two different behaviours that can be separately measured in a special test box: one characterized by increased locomotion and one characterized by strong compulsive gnawing. Six different neuroleptic drugs with different clinical profiles (metaclopramide, haloperidol, chlorpromazine, thioridazine, clozapine, and sulpiride) were tested for their ability to antagonize either of these two different behaviours

We found that the neuroleptic drugs causing high incidences of extrapyramidal side effects (metoclopramide and haloperidol) predominantly antagonized the apomorphine-induced compulsive gnawing, while the ‘atypical’ neuroleptic drugs causing low incidences of extrapyramidal side effects (thioridazine, clozapine, sulpiride) instead antagonized the apomorphine-induced locomotion. When the drugs were rank-ordered according to their relative potencies in antagonizing gnawing as compared to locomotion, the rank order paralleled clinical data concerning the incidence of extrapyramidal side effects. The findings are tentatively explained by the existence of two different dopamine receptors. The test may be useful for the screening of new neuroleptic drugs because it seems possible to distinguish drugs producing extrapyramidal side effects from drugs that do not.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Classification  of  Neuroleptic  Drugs  According  to  Their  Ability  to  Inhibit  Apomorphine-Induced  Locomotion  and  Gnawing Evidence for Two different Mechanisms of action 

In  animal  models  the  selection  of  new  possible  antipsychotic  drugs  has  therefore  often  been  based  on  their  ability  to  block  the stereotyped  behaviour  induced  by  dopaminergic  drugs  (e.g.,  apomorphine

Haloperidol has unwanted side extrapyramidal side effects


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Continued efficacy and safety of subcutaneous apomorphine in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease

Approximately 1 million people in the United States (US) are estimated to have Parkinson's disease (PD), and about 50,000 new cases are diagnosed annually [1,2]. Within 5 years of diagnosis, approximately 40% of patients receiving levodopa begin experiencing motor fluctuations [3], most often off episodes occurring at the end of the oral anti-PD medication dosing interval (“end-of-dose wearing off”) or at unpredictable times (spontaneous “on/off” episodes). A similar, or slightly lower, percentage develop dyskinesia [3]. Off episodes are characterized by both motor and non-motor features that may include hypomobility, freezing, reduced dexterity, panic attacks, pain, behavioral changes or autonomic dysfunction [4–6]. In advanced PD, off periods may be unpredictable and prolonged, at times lasting up to 5 h [7–9].

Subcutaneous apomorphine (APO) was recently approved in the US for the acute intermittent treatment of off episodes associated with advanced PD, and has been shown in controlled clinical trials to be safe and highly effective in this indication [9,11,12–16]. No other agent currently available in the US has been shown to provide rapid efficacy in the acute treatment of off episodes.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Schizophrenic symptoms improve with apomorphine

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On the edge: Pharmacological evidence for anxiety-related behavior in zebrafish larvae

Zebrafish larvae are ideally suited for high-throughput analyses of vertebrate behavior. The larvae can be examined in multiwell plates and display a range of behaviors during early development. 
